Gmml-Visio Beta version
Copyright 2005-2006 BiGCaT Bioinformatics, University of Maastricht

Program Overview

Gmml-Visio is a pathway visualization and editing program
using pathways in the GMML format. It is meant to be flexible
enough to display many different types of data, such as microarray
data and proteomics data, on familiar biological pathways.
The available GMML pathways are converted directly 
from GenMAPP pathways, and should appear exactly the same.

Disclaimer

This software is Beta and available only for testing purposes 
to members of NuGO, the Biorange Pathway group and the GenMAPP group.
Although we have done a lot of testing already, we can't guarantee
that it works for you or even that it doesn't blow up your computer.

About this help file...

As is always the case, this help page was one of the last 
features added to Gmml-Visio. As such, we must admit that 
the information here is scant.
We ask for your understanding and promise to work hard in the 
future to improve the situation.

How do I ... Create a new pathway

Step 1: create a new pathway by pressing Ctrl+N or going to File->New Mapp in the menu.
Step 2: Now you can start adding new elements and editting them. See How to... Edit a pathway below for more information. Note that when creating a new pathway, you automatically enter edit-mode.

How do I ... Edit a pathway

Step 1: First, make sure you are in edit mode. You can toggle edit mode by pressing the edit-mode icon in the toolbar (at the top of the main window). The edit-mode icon looks like a little window with a pencil on top of it. Alternatively you can toggle edit-mode in the Edit menu.
Step 2: You can change existing objects in two ways. Firstly, you can click on an object and drag the handles to resize or move objects. Secondly, you can open the properties tab in the panel on the right size of the window. There you can enter exact coordinates, as well as all kinds of other object properties.
Step 3: You can add new objects by clicking one of the object icons in the toolbar. Note that the object icons are only available in edit-mode. If you're unsure what a certain icon does, you can hover over it with the mouse cursor to get a description.

How do I ... Display microarray data

Step 1: Select the right gene database
Step 2: Make sure your expression dataset is in the right format. Your expression dataset needs to be in tab-delimited text format (which you can create in excel). Create an expression dataset. You can create the dataset in excel. You have to use the same layout as when importing data in GenMAPP, including the GenMAPP system code. Please refer to the GenMAPP manual how to do this.
	
Keyboard shortcuts

Ctrl + N: create a new pathway
Ctrl + O: open a pathway
Ctrl + S: save pathway

How to contact us:

Developers:
Martijn van Iersel
Thomas Kelder

If you have any questions regarding GmmlVisio martijn.vaniersel@

The official Gmml-Visio website is currently at
http://blog.bigcat.unimaas.nl/~martijn/gmmlvisio/

Where to get the source

At this time the source is only available on request. 
Send your request to martijn.vaniersel@bigcat.unimaas.nl
Very soon we will make source available 
online, free of hassle.

